Hello, dear listener and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast that knows over 50 comedy synonyms for the word arse.
And we'll be and we'll be using all of them this episode.
The devil's pillow.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Don, and I'm the morning after that rump vindaloo that no amount of visine drops will cure for this one.
Well, you haven't got anywhere near my keyword.
We are watching series one, episode 19 Ring Around the Moon.
We think it's probably originally episode four.
It is, yeah.
And it does show every sign of being early.
I think.
It's got cranky pants Kearney.
Yeah, he's really yelling at people.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So this is not the Konig who's been through the Blacks Anan, who's saved them all from the curses of your mortality a bunch of times.
He's quite cross, I think.
We are recording this. on the ninth of January 2026.
The original broadcast date for this in the UK was the 15th of January, 1976, which is, of course, 50 years ago.
That's illegal.
I'm feeling it. every single week, I can feel.
It does turn out that we, it's actually hard, Richard, you've mentioned this before, but this was broadcast on channel 7 here.
It was slightly earlier than anybody in the...
Yeah.
British we were in the 70s.
It was the 6th of January in the US, but here, all of series one had finished broadcast on Channel 7 in Australia by December 1975.
That's right.
And I believe we got it in production order.
Okay.
It's very hard to find the details of that.
I've got to look them up for you, but AT and 7 in Sydney, we spent a fortune on this.
And as we've said, it's because Channel 7 didn't have the Olympics in 74.
And we had colour in March 75.
Exactly.
And this was the premiere.
Just like galaxy TV back in the 90s premiered with the champions, which was only 20 cough years old because you've got to go with something that's got a blonde and a bloke in stretch jersey.
Well, yes.
And another bloke who doesn't do as much.
No.
But he's got a lovely, a lot of action with Victor's magic 8 ball in this one.
Yes, I have a theory about that. have to say.
So I think we should go in because there's, it's very slow.
No, we've got a lot.
Three drinks, then.
We got a lot.
Yeah, yeah.
So I have a key word and my key word this evening is areola.
And I'm a single on Tantred.
And so the next time I say that word, I'm going to get Richard to press play. cleaner than I expected.
I had to think about it.
All right.
So here goes Ariola.
Ooh, space...
Hey, I can see my house from here.
You can.
That was very Christmassy.
Oh, oh, we've got Nesden.
Yes.
Isn't that who that is?
So this is this is Max Faulkner.
Yes. who is in 20 Doctor Who episodes in the 1970s.
We can mention all of them off by heart.
Can't we, Nathan?
No, I don't think we can.
But I can mention that he is the guy who throws himself off a cliff at the beginning of the Android invasion.
He certainly does.
He has mouthies with Louise Jamison in Invasion of Time.
Yes.
Oh, I remember.
From a moment, I thought it was a Teletubbies, but this just ruined.
I've had mornings like that.
Oh God, yes.
Yeah, it does look like a cross section of where all of the sort of, you know, the milk secreting glands.
Well, that's funny because it's targeting his paneil gland, isn't it?
Yes.
Oh, yes. very from beyond.
It's very Cartesian, isn't it?
It is, and it's very now and woo-woo.
Orah would have been into this episode. 10-year- Alexandra says, no, who's fast food comes in that box?
I was going to say, well, Tanya tends to bring it around as James if he were here, we'd be saying the chicken or beef.
Tanya, but I just, this is the one.
Okay, no we say this every week.
This is the one I remember the best.
It might have been repeated a lot or simply because for a child under 10.
This is all they do is type really, really fast on a vertical form.
How does he know what buttons to press?
None of them are labels. no, right?
anybody know?
I've watted that keyboard when I was a kid.
Absolutely wanted.
We didn't notice the Penelope Keith type in the...
But there's some proper slapping in this.
No, I've never noticed this before, but the costumes are so Star Trek the motion picture.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well it's the same period, isn't it?
Well, pre that, yeah.
And Paul gets to do some jumping over the desk action.
It's not gonna go well.
I was a little bit worried about Carno.
I have to say in this because he's just thrown like entirely across the room.
And like then we're having this thing and then we're worried about Paul and we're worried about it.
No one checks on Car. and no one checks on Car.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Paul looks so upset.
No, no, no.
Sorry, it's the minority hire.
They're not killing him We should mention that Max Falkner was a stumpman.
Yes.
Which is why he had so many putts.
So he's in cursive peladon is in order, is it?
Yeah, I think he's a guard in one of the Paladon.
Yeah, a minor in as in he plays a young person in Monster Appella.
He's in a lot of Doctor Who.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Victor's 8 ball appears in Doctor Who.
Yes, I think it probably does.
Oh, and there's this is how you act.
I'm not sure the standards lobster.
He's not a good actor, is he?
Max?
I think he's great.
I'd be like that too.
Help me.
And honestly, honestly, Helen is getting it right.
She said, 0 my god, not another one.
Yeah, but this was on my list.
That was kind of like my 1st one.
I've said before that watching this, I'm always noting down timestamps for possible pictures of her to use for the website.
Oh, I know which one you're using.
Oh, there's so many.
No, I'll lay money on which one.
Rolling bum acting.
No, it's myself.
Everyone gets to roll around and flesh their bums.
This is Ray Austin directed episode.
Okay.
So Ray indeed started with, as, well, as far as we're concerned as a stunt arranger on the Avengers.
His 1st directing jobs were with the champions, which we've talked about on the fingering of Bond.
But, uh, New Avengers was, um, But this was kind of his 1st big, um, directing job.
The Andersons really liked his work and they liked someone who understood physicality and that they wanted to get a lot of physicality out of their young acting team.
Sorry, Marty, but they're young, you know, they wanted a lot more.
Sylvia wanted a lot more.
Let's also remember, because I always do this, great close-up of Babs looking startled.
Is that Sylvia's the producer on this.
So the look and feel and the sci-finess and the weirdness was being pushed by her.
So you know the writer on this one, don't you?
Edward DeLorenzo.
Not biblically.
No, not intimately.
Well, he was build a script editor on the 1st 6 episodes, but according to Johnny Byrne, he didn't do that.
But Johnny loved him, and so did Chris Penfold, who pretty much rewrote this episode.
And his other one missing link, because he's such an esoteric woo-woo writer, and it's all about high concept, and it's all about, you know, the what if and the edge of space and the connection of all things, and all the stuff we're more familiar with these days, but all this Jungian stuff.
Um, was Carno's back, by the way.
Oh, Conno's fine, by the way.
The hair's also a lot better than it was in the last scene, so there was.
Was it you who mentioned that the alpha hairdressing salon is the autopsy left?
I think so.
Same chemicals.
I mean, the thing for me is that, of course, all that woo-woo-yungian stuff is eventually where we land in series one, isn't it?
You know, it's an asteroid.
Peter Bowles is in it and he's the devil or whatever, you know.
Whereas here, I think it's really, really surprisingly straightforward.
That can be a good thing though.
Yeah, it's a little bit low concept for me, I thought.
Well, this is what the critics said and Johnny and all the others, the writers at the time, the TV's critics are saying, it's too simple.
I don't know.
Did they blow the budget on the last episode?
Well, no, that was the last episode rewatch, which wasn't the one they made before this one.
No, they blew the budget on breakaway.
You quite correct.
Right.
Because this one is almost a bottle episode.
Yeah, yeah.
Exactly.
And that's why the effects are very simple.
Although there's some gorgeous eagle Lego.
Oh, wonderful.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, well, I think, you know, the way the show is set up because these sets are so spectacularly detailed and expensive looking.
A bottle show still looks amazing.
Are we referencing TNG again?
Well, yeah, TNG's a bit like that.
No, this is what happens when Pac-Man actualises.
You beat the final screen.
You eat all the ghosts and then you can eat them in the moon. find that works fine for me.
Oh, I love it.
I love it.
And I also love the fact that, you know, whatever it is, it's a probe.
It's not a spaceship made out of air fixed model.
But it's also, it's not their home planet.
It's simply a pro.
Yeah, yeah.
A thinking self-actualising probe.
When do they send the butthole probe?
Cut the eye.
They've got the eye.
They've got the nipple.
Aurphous sperms out there.
Because according to your, all is one, it all is interconnected.
It's alimentary, do you?
Computers being a fucking arse again.
Of course she's moody.
So I was just reminded today that we won't get Carno next year and I'm starting to I'm starting to mourn a little bit because this is what, episode 18 or 19?
Yes, 18.
18.
And it only goes up to 24 and then the whole thing goes to hell and we lose all of our regulars.
We get some moments.
They do. hilarity.
It's more like crystal meth in a shopping mall in...
Is this smoking an exotic cheroot in Victor's party?
Sorry, Dong?
No, there was just a globe in the background.
I just wanted to see it bounced like in the, oh, I forget his name, Silent Era.
Oh, yeah.
No, I don't know.
That could be Victor's 8 ball.
It could be.
So, you know, it's in a lot of other stories, and I shall be mentioning, it's in Death's other Dominions.
We've already seen it.
It's on Bald Eagle 4 and all that.
Is it a proto-orac?
It is.
Yes, exactly.
It's a prop.
It's also in...
Yeah, it's ranch.
All right, just because we're here.
It fell off the desk too many times.
So they had to make or X rectangular.
Does everyone remember which Doctor Who episode it premiered in?
No.
All right.
Okay, 70s album cover.
I don't know who did.
It really is.
I could do it.
No, no, concept album.
That's a concept album.
I'm Emerson Lake and Palmer.
Yeah, oh, yes.
And maybe ELO?
This is brilliant, isn't Is it gorgeous?
It's so good.
This is how Italians watched it on their time.
Yes, thank you.
I was thinking it's, yeah, very European.
So the alien eye view...
It's wonderful because it is just the film.
It's like shooting a the film being projected in a degraded way on a screen and then lots of lights out of focus in the foreground and stuff.
And because it's something that just has to be done in camera.
It can't be done in post.
Like you just have to see it.
I just think it's wonderful.
And that's one of the great things about Space 1999 is the special effects just have to be done in camera.
Our last alien menace couldn't see.
Now we have an alien menace who can't hear.
Yeah, yeah.
And it's all about seeing as well. isn't it?
Light and colour.
Oh, Bob.
Bob goes.
Bob's not in it next year.
It's getting very diffused in 70s porno.
I don't wish to know that Bob's not in this.
Does she have something in her rider that there's nothing behind her except like beige?
Yeah.
We've mentioned that she...
She's always shot through a layer of gauze, where everyone else is blank, and she has to have equal time with Uncle Marty and equal line time, which is why you get to see her again in the sauna robe from Wargames in this.
Yeah, yeah.
They dress her up.
The aliens kidnap her and put her in a frog again.
It's half an ABA clip.
Wait till we get there.
I can't remember which one is missing, whether it's Agnitha or the other one.
I failed my abet.
Congratulations, because, you know, if this is a universe where we actualise everything from our unconscious, Babs is a little bit hornbaggy.
Yeah.
So we did just have that scene there where, um, you know, Nick and Marty were having a fight.
Yes, Nick and Marty. watch that season.
Yeah, he's being a prick, though.
Spaceship.
Yep.
Yeah.
Well, I expect you to, like, risk yourself and pilots.
Go and do your job.
Yes, I told you to.
Do as you're told.
In the disco space brain.
This score is one of the ones that's all by Vict Elms from Christie, Yellow River, 1970, you know, everyone remembers the 2 Ronnies and Burns people.
And lots of lovely shots of the 44 inch eagle.
He's not got long to live because he's sitting next to Alan Carter.
So his name's Donovan.
He's a star pop star of the 1970s.
Hasn't got long.
We don't know who he's played by.
I can't find any evidence of who he is.
Let me have a look for you.
See if I've got it in the notes. love this.
This is just animation, isn't it?
Like, just, it's just animation.
It looks magnificent.
It's very simple and it's cheaply done and it was criticised for that, but I like this. again, who doesn't remember that?
But then that's real.
Like that stunning camera, like firing just a big yellow light at the actor.
I think is great.
And the, you know, the dialogue and the, and the, you know, the, it's so, we watch Blake 7, right, and you get, like, um, model shots of the spaceships, but they can't actually achieve what they need to tell the story.
But here it's always just perfect.
You know, they absolutely manage to get the effect shots that they want to tell the story, the way they tell it.
I think it's really incredibly well done.
I mean, there's a lot of this, this episode, isn't there?
Flying at the fucking light bulb.
There's such a clear thing that since no one had done this before.
There's no verbal, sorry, visual dictionary of how we'll show you what you're looking at.
Yeah.
So you're seeing it created in situ of how we will tell the story visually.
We don't have the idea of looking through the view of the front of the screen.
Yeah, yeah.
Sorry, the view of the viewport of the ship or the viewport of the main console.
No.
Yeah.
And it's always not what you expect.
Yeah, I mean, you have some of that visual grammar established by Star Trek, which kind of predates this.
But again, you know, they're fairly limited in what they're able to achieve.
They can't achieve anything like this. anywhere near at the moment.
No, no.
That's right.
I mean and that's magnificent.
Like, even that shot, like, where we were clearly a very long distance away from the moon, if the moon's that tiny in that shot, but just the spaceship circling around and around as it plummets to the...
So have they slowed down?
Have they undergrad for this?
I don't know.
I think everyone's doing shitty low gravity acting in this.
They're not on wires, but it, well, no, they're just doing, like, look how crap it is.
It's everyone we know.
Yeah.
But the score is Vic Elms and the orchestra refused to work with him.
So he was hired to give it funky upscale.
It's very porno funny.
In my headcan and it's Vangelis.
And they're running along the beach.
Yeah, very much chariots of fire.
That's what I'm going for. you know, six, 7 years before.
Nice cuddle scene with Donovan.
I don't know why that looks like that.
It's a split screen, isn't it?
Very similar to things I remember as a young person.
Very strange.
Certain lusty thoughts.
But no, Vichelms wrote that, but that's pretty much it.
And it was also Alan...
Did he turn up with a he turned up with a guitar?
He's a really good guitarist, but like so many Had no score or anything.
Well, he's like Michael Jackson.
He can't read or write music and he didn't know how to conduct.
So he tried to play it on the guitar to the orchestra and they just said, sorry, give me a score.
Not doing this.
More my jobs were.
Yeah, more my exactly.
And then Alan Willis, who's the, you know, who's actually the arranger of the series, did this episode.
But it is Vic's, and it's so spa funky, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Absolute. porno fun.
The 2nd bit is, I think, a Richard Robert Farnham piece as when you cut to them again.
But, oh, lots of, again, space bum acting in space porridge.
I do like the, you know, the straps that go up between their...
Yeah, space now.
Yeah, awesome.
For no reason.
It is just a light bulb, isn't it?
Like, it is just a big light bulb.
That looks amazing.
It's so good, isn't it?
And again, just a sort of practical, I mean, that's just a sort of mix, isn't it?
It's all hell night, though.
Bellamy, don't look into the line.
Oh, there goes fucking Marty.
You deep sheet.
But simple, they cranked the camera, but simple works.
The thread of just one point of life, and again, it gets us to use our imagination.
Well, it just reminds me of what's the, what's the bond film where we're on a set, that's the moon, and we're driving a moon buggy?
Oh, diamonds.
No, diamonds are forever.
The worst Bond film.
Oh, no, live in that die.
The black exploitation bond is the worst.
It's quite dull, livingly tonight.
It's true.
See, this is what I think you're using the picture.
Spice gold.
No, it was, it is absolutely on the short list.
We should mention we're only a day after Shirley Bassie's birthday, so that's a reason she's wearing that.
But she's about to stare...
Gospel Barbara.
She is gospel and she's startled as fuck.
Look how startle she is.
That.
That was going to be that.
Like there was a moment where it was going to be that.
You'd be startled too, if you're freaking 2IC desk.
Johnny suddenly turns up in a space.
Also, who undressed me?
Yeah, yeah, bet his clothing on me.
But the war games people undressed.
Like, is LeBlair undressed?
Isle of Blair.
She's amigo action dolly.
Do you know whose the voice was, Don?
No, tell me you hear that.
It's it's Prentice Hancock.
He really is.
It's, it's, uh, what's his face?
Morrow.
Paul.
It's Paul just doing his sort of...
It could be bothered casting anyway.
Sexy Space Boys, which is terrible.
I love these very quick subliminal pleasures of her.
That's wonderful And again, that's all Ray Austin.
So, again, stunt guys know how to make a light camera and movement all work together.
I think he's does a really good job on this.
It's like that looks amazing.
It's 1st go. really good.
It's lovely framing.
Yeah.
Yes.
Right now.
Okay.
So what are we doing?
Bob's just looking as handsome as fuck in the background.
Bob's saying, I can't believe you're not going to renew my contract.
I'm really, really hot in this.
He is really hard.
Imagine taking a ride on that moustache.
Right now.
He's also got great authenticity.
I think he's what they all do.
The only one I don't think who does is Marty because I know he's acting.
He's really good, but...
He'll get an Oscar later.
Yeah, yeah.
But Victor, if you want, if you want absolute presence, the one who really creams it is Victor.
Oh, yeah.
He was my favourite one as a kid.
I've seen this before. love that character.
The noseplays.
It sells the whole character, that nose.
It's the humanity of him.
He's the opposite of Spock, you know.
Hularity, the quietness.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But I think my theory is right.
Like, because Triton is a planet.
Like, why do we fucking know about the planet Tryon?
Well, it turns out it's a moon of, what, Jupiter?
No, I think it's No, no, it's in their star chart, so it's somewhere else.
Yeah, yeah.
The DC tub novel, if you read that as a kid, tries to make it one of them.
There is a moon in the solar system called trying.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
It is a moon of Saturn or Jupiter?
I forget where... too old.
So here is the start of the ABBA moment.
We know.
It could be too.
Is it you're not going to give me a man after midnight?
This is when she's told she's not going to get an name.
Mama Mia.
No, it's the whole Mama Mia. only have one side of it.
So for a 2nd I was going to use the part of this where she's literally upside down because I just thought that was hilarious.
I mean, look how incredible this looks.
It's amazing.
And it's literally all done in camera.
It's so good Yeah, wonderful stuff.
There's also most of your parents' parties after you'd been sent to be.
Well, absolutely.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That, it was going to be that.
Her upside down. upside down.
So yeah, my bet is either ABBA or Kylie.
This is our out case.
Oh, I think it's definitely ABBA. you're right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
With a little bob.
It's very strange, isn't it?
I mean, I think, yeah, it's a genius of it.
If it had just been like some fucking space thing, do you know what I mean?
If she'd gone into a room that was full of control panels and stuff, that would have just been so tedious.
Or bumpy foreheaded aliens.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So few of that in space, 1999, actually.
It's more eye makeup.
Yeah, yeah.
We did have bumpy foreheads in war games.
We did.
It's always going to be there, but it is so less prevalent than later shows.
Yeah.
So again, there's something happening, like there is something about there aliens that are about sight and light.
Yeah, so the force fields made of light.
Well, again, Edward de Lorenzo was a big fan of Joseph Campbell and Jung.
Yeah, okay.
Apotheosis, Jung, Jung's base was actually astrology in the different branches of astrology.
He didn't make that public in his in his time because he wanted to be taken seriously.
Yeah, but he goes all the way back and uses, again, Chinese and Indian and all that.
But he is based on astrology for his archetypes.
And to Lorenzo, of course, it was the 70s.
So really in all of that.
So the whole, like, concept of creatures of light is all Gabriel as well and also the myths, Mithris, you know, the Vada, the original, the wife of Archangel Michael, who had it, and it was the same, but the same archetypes turn up in mythology all through and in astrology.
And so this is the bringer of light.
This is Triton, the 1st the 1st ones.
And their presence is simply not knowing, not having had form, not having had ego, they simply wish to amass knowledge.
Really annoying bloggers of the 90s.
It is like it is very period, isn't it?
The whole thing. period.
But without, so again, without ego, they are without sensibility is in the Lorenzo script, so they don't get that they're being RC bastards.
I think we lose a bit of that.
I mean, they're much more. maleficent in this.
Yeah, yeah.
It sort of collapses into the usual thing.
It's the, you know, it's the Doctor Who Dragonfire part 3 solution where you just tell the villain that their planet's been destroyed and they obediently kill themselves in order to kind of solve the problem.
So it is a little bit pat and I do think the ending is not.
I need to try that in the next team's meeting.
Your position's been made redundant.
You have no reason to boss me around.
But there is something weird and beautiful about this.
It's very procedural.
There's a lot of kind of going, you know, sending eagles to the thing.
It happens a bunch of times.
There's the, you know, the tractor beam or whatever the, you know, the force field.
All of that's very procedural.
Good old Milo Slurpee and a whole lot of afterschool snacks, not miss anything.
No, but there is that weird, it does still have that weird level of mysticism and spirituality.
I felt I was missing something.
Like the writing, like they skipped scenes or they dropped pages of dialogue.
I think that does happen.
I really felt like I guessed what we were getting at more than I was shown or told.
I think there's one, and I'm not going to be able to identify it as we watch this.
I shouldn't think, but there was one moment where I thought, we've dumped a whole scene here and a bunch of stuff has happened that we haven't heard about.
I think that shot is amazing. gorgeous.
I love that.
Would that be what just drawing on the cells or?
Yeah, it's really basic animation.
It's airbrush.
You're correct.
It's airbrush on a cell and it's an optical effect.
It's not necessarily cheap, though, because that has to still be done frame by frame.
And we have a moving background.
Is that it?
Like the background's moving to make it look like the eagles moving the eagles in the same space in the shot.
So they can just, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, I think it looks really effective, but it is just clearly hand animation, isn't it?
Okay, I want to inform OH and S. This is a terribly designed spacecraft.
For God's sake.
You can't reach any of the important controls.
That's always, yeah, yeah. just, oh, are you kidding me?
How did we get into something?
why he can't, like, can you just, like, move?
Like it's really just over there.
Press that button?
Sorry, plot two, strong.
Yes, reach controls.
We're about to get it with space added stripes.
That looks great, doesn't it?
Olympics were only a year ago.
Also, do you notice that there are no units.
Everything is in numbers.
So the distance we're 7.1 away.
This is the only episode that actually talks about speed and capacity of the Eagles, so you can almost work it out.
There's no units.
They don't say kilometres per 2nd or anything.
They're meant to fly at .15 speed of light, aren't they?
And I think they cover that in season 2 will get there.
No, I think it's Olympic swimming pools.
Harbour is how you work out in time and distance.
Hence the speeder strike.
Football field with a golf ball at one end.
Oh, that sound, I think the sound that it produces is really terrifically effective.
Like, it's great.
Do you know the one that I mean?
And they use it over again.
Now, I felt ripped off that an autopilot didn't inflate at this point.
Yes.
Nick's still trying to find the fucking control.
It's there.
Like you're touching it now.
Alan, just move your hand up.
You dipshit?
Can these men find clitorises?
I don't think so.
Oh, God.
No, Nick. doesn't even know what one is.
He doesn't give a shit.
He's an Australian bloke from the 1970s.
I just steer the burger.
There's a magic button. when you turn the engines off, it doesn't mean the ship stops.
So at least they got that bit slightly right.
Yes, we just still, that's a gorgeous shot.
That is beautiful.
Oh, we could never have achieved it against the moon background.
Like, it's always, it's that thing where there's always mysterious, like, lanes where there's no, no where there's no stars in the background so that we can move the spaceship in front of it. we go.
Well, no, it's still better than Battlestar Galactica and Star Wars where you could see the plate of glass.
Yes, the edges of the plate of glass.
Soon to be in a theatre near you.
I am so hoping.
Oh really?
It's all good.
Yeah, re-released.
Regional can cut.
Really?
Shoot first.
Oh, wow, that's okay.
That's what they should call it.
Yeah.
Isn't that a gorgeous shot of the 44 inch, not that we're counting.
I wanted them to be holding hands.
I did too.
Why are they not holding hands?
Tanya's cross.
Tanya's had enough of these bollocks boy play.
So much Lego hair in this episode, yeah.
A lot of actors that we later see die horribly.
Yeah, yeah, consistency as well.
We've probably earlier seen them die horribly.
Yeah, because we're watching the wrong order anyway.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Because of Nathan.
I know, I'm insane.
But you do remember this.
I just, the ones where almost nothing happened. are the ones that really affect, at least the child viewer and I expect, it was you all along, Paul. fuck you Paul sneaks off into the loo with his cold walk and goes, I'm the alien now. inside the beast with you. all along with his freaking torch.
You little thirsty bitch.
All you wanted was attention.
Was he was he double paychecking it?
I don't know.
No, absolutely not.
That's why they can't sleep, but he wasn't going to cost anything.
He's right here.
Where is the union at this point or the guilt?
Well, actually, yeah, Zenia talked about that.
Oh, was she complaining?
Was she kind of going, why didn't I?
I've got a lovely northern accent. thought that was going to be the shot.
Yeah, it is.
She looks maiden till there.
She looks like she's onto us and she's not putting up with it anyway.
Yeah, yeah.
No, no, they put Botox in too many places at that point.
Is that the wonderful thing?
There was none of that then.
This is just them.
And a whole lot of solitate behind their wigs, but...
Yeah, that's right.
No, that's that's Millicent Fogel right there.
Bulldog clips at the back of the neck.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Doesn't Bob do this well?
I actually quite like the awkwardness.
If I had to describe Konig.
Not Marty's performance, but Konig's presence is always slightly awkward, not really knowing his position, showing the panic, then subsuming the panic.
And the way he loses his temper in this earlier scene when we talked over it, you know, when he's shouting at Helena.
Get it right, get me the fact, get me my dry cleaning on my desk by midday.
Yeah, yeah, make me a sandwich.
What I have to do to get a damn cup of coffee around here?
So are we saying he's Brent from the office?
Yes.
Pens.
I got the pens today.
There's only 3 left.
I hate those pens. love those outliners.
You don't like?
No, I, no, I hated the clip.
It broke off too quickly.
Yeah, the I used to make spaceship about the felt tip that I just dislike.
Well, Babs doesn't agree with you because she's fascinating.
She can see...
There are 4 pens.
This, I think, is terrifying.
Did you probe my optic nerve bar?
Do you think this is?
this is absolutely frightening.
He's just melty, isn't he?
He's really, if I had to, no, this is so close to Bourne.
What do you mean she's drunk?
No, I mean, she can't see.
She's blind.
But the blind thing, you know, like, and then we discover that what's his face, you know, from the Android invasion had his brain burned out.
Never having a great time, is he?
So he's getting tipped off things.
I think if you're a stuntman, do you know what I mean?
You don't need a stuntman to get a massage. to eat a lovely meal, it's mostly to be in a car.
Do you remember him in Star One and Warlord of Blake 7?
Yes, that's him.
Again, getting tipped over things and meshed in them.
But that's also, I need to get back to Victor's magic 8 ball.
It 1st appears in Doctor Who.
Yeah.
On Excelon, in Death, in Death to Daleks, episode four.
My 1st episode.
I've nicked it.
But it's also Davros's big old globy thing in Death in Destiny of the Dale.
Ah, yes, okay.
With Lala Ward and Tom.
So anyway, back to the reality here.
Well, I mean, I think we have had her brain operated on before. quite a bit.
Yeah, it does happen quite a lot.
And so here they've kind of burned her optic nerve out or whatever, and so she can just see because she's inhabited by the weird alien or whatever.
But there's something bleak and horrible about that.
Like that's kind of awful.
Oh, I've been to that disco.
I keep hearing the Austin power of transition music. when they do that.
Okay, I know it's a simple map painting and all the rest and a light, but it really is.
It's an ominous map.
And it scared the freaking out.
I think it's hugely frightening.
Nine years of age.
I was terrified.
I agree.
How about that?
That's Barbara with no facial expression of any kind.
That's what I'm here for.
That's what she's like in the wardrobe when they're not using her on set.
That's what Malani looks like when you take a hat on.
He's the worst boyfriend ever.
At least it wasn't a marshmallow.
Yeah.
I also like how they don't properly define their relationship.
Like, he clearly likes her, but are they fucking in series one?
Well, she's their own series too.
What happens on the moon base?
stays on the moon.
I think it's just that...
Oh, they got the 1st moon base.
Are they at the 2nd moon base, yeah?
We will all be discussing that next season.
I think she's got, look, she's just got a lot of choices and she's a woman of a certain age.
She's got Bob, right?
at the end of a step.
Oh, and there are settings on the com lock.
Yeah, yeah. 3 settings.
Yeah.
You don't need a man with those settings.
Aubergine sleeve.
Aubergine sleeve and cheap shoes. go well.
They are cheap shoes, aren't they?
Why does he get cheap shoes?
It looks 2 different kinds.
John has really nice shoes.
Stay back. unimportant.
We discussed this in the first.
Oh, lemon sleeves still not going to go well.
The 1st season, sorry, for breakaway.
The stars wear ballies.
It's an Italian actor.
That's all you get to see of them, this episode. especially Turnax.
The stars wear handmade's Swiss ballet shoes, you know, the beautiful ballet.
Everyone else wears hush puppies.
Yeah, they're just the standard...
Oh, but this is what I remember.
And the whole...
It's wonderful, isn't it?
You play this at home with the card, your dad's calculator.
Oh, my God.
I stuck into the wall and did this.
I found one of the old calculators with the handles.
Yes.
So I did so much of that.
I loved computer in this and I loved it because of those buttons.
Yes.
And if, like, eight-year-old, nine-year-old me knew that I was spent most of the day sat at a desk in front of a bank of clicky buttons with LEDs behind them in rainbow colours, he would just die of exciting.
Actually, maybe maybe DeLorenzo was right, and we do get what we wish for.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's just like I have all of Doctor Who on my phone at any time and I have a big baby buttons in front of me.
I want it.
It almost, no, it looks like Thunderbird's hands.
Yeah, I know.
They come in with a perfectly manicured and very little movement.
Did you know they put them in silicon gloves, though, and cover them in my clothes?
Oh my god.
That's why you look like puppets.
Or was that a kink thing?
Yeah, yeah. after work.
It's called the stranger.
I love Silvia for lots of reasons.
Oh, Victor, pull yourself.
Yeah.
Honestly, I didn't know Victor was Jewish.
Topical.
Bergman.
So my theory is, right?
There's no way that Victor knows about the alien planet called Triton, which...
How does he know?
No, no, he fakes it all.
That's it.
Yeah, he loves up everything.
Which is why they have to put the information in the computer.
Yeah.
Because he's just...
He's made it all up.
He's neutral evil and he's just part of a way out.
He doesn't tell...
He doesn't tell Kernig because he wants Koenig to be... exactly right.
But yeah, Koenig needs to sound like he believes it when he tells them.
But Victor's just completely fucking made that up.
Look, I found...
It turns out their planet has been destroyed.
Trident.
It's in my records that I just made up. 70s thrash metal band album.
It's right here in the city.
I was going to say, yeah, it's behind his Carlos Santana and just in front of his...
Emerson Lake and Palmer.
No, I'm pretty sure it's a fish album.
You're right, the pineal gland and she needs to work on her teeth.
That's right, I think.
Do you think they showed that to Barbara?
I've actually watched the episode and what the fuck they made my teeth?
Close meeting with Jerry.
Why are coat hangers?
Oh, does he have his hand on?
No, he doesn't.
Do you think he'd have his hand on Bob Spart?
They didn't have an HR on the moon.
No, they did.
It's cold, clearly.
It's cold.
Moon, cup those buns for warmth.
That's why it's called Ring Around the Moon.
Isn't she sultry?
Dewy.
But this, like, she's just going to die as well.
God, Bob is so great.
I think Bob is totes into... the MVP.
Why have we not?
The stillness, no one is stiller than him in this episode.
Oh, and here we go.
With the magic 8 ball.
It keeps turning up.
It's in Star Maiden, as we mentioned Blake's seven.
Star Maiden.
Or is that a Kryptonian city in the middle?
Is that too esoteric?
There a gurdy.
I think there's a there's an abacus in there?
at some point.
It's a lot of old tap.
It does actually do things and it lights up and moves around.
I think you see it busier.
Nope, no, no. city of excellence.
It's a weasel ball.
A weasel.
A giant weasel ball for space cats.
Put it down on the ground.
I think Victor's just doing it to again, look busy.
No, it doesn't do anything.
No, no, it's literally that. don't you think?
Don't you think it's Barry just going, give me a fucking perspex ball or I'm not doing this scene.
Absolutely.
And put me in the opening credit.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But Don got it.
It's it's it is.
It's mini.
It's the, it's the Aurac, um...
Yeah, the BB 88 or all...
Yeah.
Wasn't it called BB 88?
one, yeah, that's.
Which just means there's a cat inside.
Oh, it's been activated 6 times when I was 24 hours.
It wasn't my party.
Okay.
I wasn't there.
Never heard of them.
I'm not in the file.
Okay.
For 2 decades, my mobile phone is Aurac.
Ah, yes.
It just Mine's like 40 because I'm that nerdy.
I love this.
He's drawing on the camera.
That's not how you do breasts.
Oh, okay.
I love it.
I'm doing nippies.
But we could have seen that the other way where you could have given him some bullshit whiteboard or something like that, but doing it in front of...
Put a nose and make him smoke a fight.
Yeah, that's right.
He's wearing glasses.
I found Waldo.
Hey, or Wally. found Wally.
But I love that he's actually just taken over.
And now I will blow it up.
For no reason.
He's blowing his ball up.
We're still on Smirnoff alert for this episode.
Yeah, it's the colour gel sign in the walls.
I don't think Midori...
They spent all the colour gels on the alien probe.
They were very busy with the green gels on the alien probe.
As a bottle episode, are you feeling confined in this?
No, because they're all fucking bottle episodes, aren't they?
Oh, look, and it's got the biggest bottle of a bottle episode.
That's it.
They spend so long walking places still. wonderful.
There's so many corridors.
I don't feel...
And they're not curved.
I don't feel it.
And we were only just talking about this.
I don't feel it in the way I do in TNG.
But I do start to feel peachily claustrophobic.
Well, because salmon, pink and tuna gray.
That set, the sets of TNG, like are impressive, but I don't think they're anything compared to this.
This is a pinewood sound stage with the biggest sets ever... almost 15 years before.
It's incredible.
And I, okay, might have had the same budget. don't know.
This was expensive.
I actually think too, like that's that bridge set on Star Trek, that Next Generation is ridiculous.
Like, it's clearly designed to give the cameras a lot of space to move around.
Yeah, it feels more like a Las Vegas concept of what a...
No, it's a friends had a computer workstation in the middle of the, of the cafe.
And no freaking seatbelts. there, I said it.
But, but in this one?
I'm surprised there isn't a barista station on the Enterprise in NextGen.
It would be a bowling, wouldn't it?
Just next to Mr. Bot, Mr. Martin, Mr. So we're taking these red shirts up here.
Why are we doing that?
Disposability.
But they all survived.
There was some sort of union deal with letting him do the voiceover for free.
Yeah, yeah.
We need more extras.
Nice thing is, and they, I don't know if they're credited, but they don't disguise the fact it is the same boys that were out on the moon.
Yeah, it is the creme de la creme de securité.
She means this.
Whatever she's about to do.
She frickin' means that they got put.
That's...
Wow, I've got a cat that does that.
Wow, that was the other thing too.
There's a thing about how you can travel.
Victor no.
So Victor says something about we've been trying to learn how to create a thing that transports people from place to place for 50 years.
So we started inventing the transporter in 1949.
Is that really a thing that happened?
I don't think that happened.
The same lab where they're trying to rock through walls. and stare at goats.
All of that was, you know, they were using crystal meth in the Second World War.
Yeah, yeah, could have been anything there.
Oh, I love how big it is.
I'm in the shot too.
My eyes are appearing in my face here.
Can you see my face?
Again, a sense of deja vu, but I don't mind it.
No, no, no.
I mean, there's a series of these. we 3 of them?
Yeah, we have three.
This is 3rd act.
But again, I'm getting a sense of we know nothing more now and this is all about ostensible threat.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The threat ramps up each.
Do we ever see out of the other side of the cockpit?
Quick point.
No, I don't think we only see out of the left hand window.
Yeah, for a hero window.
It's the eye of Horus.
But it's not even the guy flying it.
The guy flying, it's on the right.
I love that.
The Swiss clock as well in the...
I mean, I think that looks incredible, don't you think?
Like, I think all of the instrument... your fricking Ray bands on your door, exactly.
Tom Cruise hasn't taught them anything, actually.
Yeah, but that, if you mean, that's beautiful, isn't it?
Beautiful.
Also, I love the little ticky ticky things on the around the eagle that don't actually do anything.
No, no.
Also, they turned off the flurose.
I've never turned off the fluoros on the computer.
Oh, I think this is early and the set isn't quite in its final stage.
It isn't.
This is the last time, episode 4 that you get to see the stairs underneath the window.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I really like this.
It was only so they didn't have to do dolly shots.
Right.
I love the stairs under the winter and they move the windows down.
Oh, there you go, Night Shore.
That is incredible.
How would you have seen that?
It never occurred to me just how well lit the eagles are always.
And then and then again, just this negative space.
It's cheap not to have a set.
And we had a beautiful set like last week, last month.
Yeah, the giant, yeah, gift shop at the end of the museum.
Yeah, that's right.
And then we had Margaret Watts of faces, you know, incredible set.
All of these unbelievable sets here is just like black space.
Oh, hello.
He gets touchy as soon as...
There's a nail salon on Alpha.
There is.
It is.
It is still the autopsy lounge.
Turn it over.
Again, same games.
The apprentices need someone to work on.
And there's a lot of dead bodies end up there.
How do you do it?
Ian McShane's nails after that happens.
Frosty tips, as he's known.
There's only 2 deaths in this one.
Donovan and...
And our guy from the beginning.
And an appearing on this episode only.
Yes.
Yeah, but we don't see Max Faulkner in any other episode, which is a shame.
Oh, Carno. so sweet.
Oh, well, why didn't you do that before with you?
He's put his he's put some more hard drives in the technology.
No, no, RAM.
No, he's a RAM.
Putting ram in, yeah.
We're old enough to remember.
Five and a bit floppy.
We know that.
Well, it's cold.
I bought my 1st hard drive, I have to say, just by means of nothing at all in the late 80s.
And it was 30 fucking megabytes.
Get out of this.
I remember you ever fill that out of a 288 modem.
I did my dissertation on a 5 and whatever inch.
And it was 50,000 words.
So thank you, Mr. Floppy.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Five and a quarter, 3.5 .
That's a smaller time.
You're about to get a stable. you're quite right.
You're about to get a staple gun moment.
This is amazing, isn't it?
Again, just a black void.
Nothing happening.
Yep.
Just me and Stanislavsky.
That's right.
So he can't see, is that it?
Because again, it's about light and darkness all the way through.
I mean it doesn't go anywhere.
It doesn't mean anything, but there's a thematic thing.
But then why is there an oxygen rich environment in the sphere?
Oh, it's just for them?
don't think so.
No, well, they do speculate about that.
Doesn't like I thought they were microbes.
So there's a moment, I think, where they speculate that they're humanoid because Helena had access to, you know, she didn't have to wear a thing inside.
She did she had to wear a toga of...
That's right.
It was only a prophylactic turbagat.
She didn't need breathing equipment.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah.
But this, I mean, he's lit so that we can see him, but he can't see.
Like he's doing his sort of miming darkness acting.
And your audition piece is?
Hey, disco.
They all disappear, but they're all going to be fine.
Yeah, they're all fine.
Yeah.
Are they back in the ship?
It's just about Marty now.
No, they're in the buffer.
Oh, okay.
They're buffering.
And this, I think, this is amazing.
Is he in front of a, is he in front of a screen?
Like a film screen?
He's an inceptual art exhibition.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's it.
You know, when you had to go into those sites?
The space 1999 experience.
I wandered in.
I went to the Tate modern late last year and they had a Picasso thing where you just sat and watched Picasso do various films with his shirt off in a way that was, you know, quite upsetting.
Are you sure it was your museum?
Yeah, yeah, it was literally a tape model.
It was the unsexual. you, Paul.
No, no, it's Simon.
That's what the alien is.
It's Simon.
Oh, it is.
Yeah.
No wonder it's got the shit. hated that game.
What about Merlin?
Did you get Merlin for Christmas?
Looking like a red mobile phone of the period.
It did, didn't it?
But I love the big magic eye thing.
Yeah.
It's the brain thing.
Like, it's the brain thing.
I surrounded my brain tissue.
Yeah Or pancreas. surrounded by lactic gland.
Or just Captain Kremen.
It really is a Captain Krem and Sphincter monster, isn't it?
Yeah.
A few years before it's time.
Oh, it's...
It is such a better version than, um, Gillian.
Gilligan's Island.
No, um, Python Boy.
Ah, brain not working.
Oh, Terry Williams.
Yeah, yeah, it is.
It's almost a Terry Gilliam field.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it does, actually.
But again, it's just projected on the walls with a, like he's seeing that there.
It is just a painting, a picture that's being projected on the wall.
So they're still banging on about Earth invasion. very Kenny Everett.
So this is where it loses it and it just goes to tread cypher 50s.
Yeah.
And that's a shame.
Except, you know, there is this thing, like, again, war games and and there are others that we've seen already where chiefly what the aliens want to do is to prevent us from encountering them because we're terrible.
Oh, God, yeah.
I would have been happy with that.
Yeah, and we do get that here.
Like, that's the thing.
But the fact that we've got a planet with a name called Triton and it's 2000000000 light years away and yet somehow Victor knows about it is just like we're not quite sure what the science fiction is going to be like here, but we think it's probably going to be stupid, don't you think?
Yeah.
Do you acknowledge?
Like Triton's Galaxy.
This is Triton's Galaxy.
We got to get the same picture every time.
Triton's universe later.
The Triton star system.
Although that just looks like another bit of the galaxy.
They have they're lying cheaty bastards.
This is Triton's universe.
Oh, no, no, no. he's actually doing is better?
worse.
One or two?
Yeah, I have had an eye too.
Well, it's just one big eye.
It's not trying, son.
Thats it.
Well, I think that's trying to screw him over, right?
Yeah, no, I think we're just making it up.
Isn't it?
A victim made it up.
There was no planet trial.
The people on the planet Triton are lovely.
They're leading full, rich and happy lives until the moon flies past them sometime during series 2 infects them all with, I don't know, syphilis and they all die.
Typically.
No, space gonorrhoea. space gonorrhoea.
And it's either Riker or Kirk.
That's the vector.
Uh, yeah.
No, it's all gone very crap.
Well, except what is the reason for being?
Well, there was a much better reason in the last one, where it was like, why do I exist?
I've lost my my my platonic husband.
My, my, um... heterosexual life partner.
I've lost my heterosexual life partner, and now I must die.
And this one is, you know, like, oh.
Well, I like that though.
I do too.
That looks awesome.
I like the spicy oil things on the slides.
But I can see why a probe...
Is that celluloid burning?
Yeah, we just burning the feel.
I mean, this is really just what every bloody Dalek's done since 1963, hasn't it?
Yeah.
For no good reason.
But if it's not a non-autonomous probe, if it has a series of guidelines and directions built in, yeah.
I mean, I think it's just a bit limp.
With a bound, they escape.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
But what it's been, like it is entirely procedural.
It's entirely on atmosphere and there's some thematic stuff about light and darkness there.
And I think maybe that's enough.
Like, I don't think that's terrible.
It's never going to be a high-ranking episode, but it's still a pretty solid series one episode, I think.
No, it was just disappointing at the end that they didn't land it.
They didn't have a better reason.
I wonder what Lorenzo's 1st idea was.
Probably a lot of Osmosis and sticky action.
Sneak up on them in the dark.
You have a lovely optic nerve.
Oh, look at that.
Are they boning?
Oh, they're thinking about it.
Get the fuck out of here.
Yes, it's Koenig.
And yeah.
They're com-sexting.
Yeah, they are.
They're compsing.
Do you think you can do that?
I think you can send nudes to the Comlock.
Well, they're asking news.
It would have made more.
And they come at a little printer on the wall.
Like, and it just keeps getting longer and longer and she's getting excited.
I can imagine.
Just pulling the piece of paper out of the thing going, holy shit.
It keeps going.
Would it have made more sense, but not bang flesh for TV.
If the probe had simply said, oh, well, screw you guys then. going home.
Oh, yeah.
I've got a rush.
Oh, shit, we left the...
What about the chips?
Oh, flies on.
Oh, free. free at last.
Yeah, rather than exploded.
I'm off to a dimension of, yeah, light entertainment and musical.
It's got a bit quite interesting and just it'll screw you guys then.
We're moving.
Yeah.
I am now going to be the studio in which Top of the Pops takes place.
Absolutely not far off.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Or Eurovision.
Eurovision exactly.
That's how you think it started.
Yeah, it could be.
Yeah, Eurovision, there's obviously something from the future that was brought back to the past to make sure, yeah.
Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah.
To make sure that Eurovision gets established because, you know, the world would fall apart if your vision, you know, you still haven't seen that Doctor Who episode.
I'm bad.
Secret viewing only.
So that's really us, I think, unless anyone has any closing remarks.
Well, we did it, didn't we?
I think we did.
I don't know what we're doing next, but do you have something to plug?
Yeah, Richard.
Not as yet, Brendan is still editing for our Avengers 1st interview, and hopefully more to follow with someone who is not in this one, but in Space 1999, but she is in a lot of other things, and that interview went really well, and it'll be a two-parter with the episodes Mandrake and New Avengers House of Cards, which would give you a hint of who he's spoken to, and hopefully more to come.
But yeah, that's when Brendan's got a lot of work on at the moment.
I'm really looking forward to it, I think. be great.
It's our 1st star interview.
Yeah, yeah, well done.
Naughty Roger Moore.
And we talk a lot about some other naughty people who were, we've mentioned on Bondfinger before, but as I say, this marvellous actress knew them all personally and had some really naughty stories.
So we had a really good time.
That's going to be amazing.
We talked for 2.5 bloody hours.
Poor Brandon has to cut it short.
Yeah, we had a lot of fun.
Briiant.
So we're kind of mid-things.
There's no flight through entirety related Doctor Who material at the moment.
No, we're still untitled Star Trek project continues unabated, and we've just released today.
So yesterday by the time I post this, a really very, very exasperatingly boring episode.
Oh, enterprise, yeah.
Oh, okay.
So I'm sure you'll all rush out.
Do they all have space sauna together with a space chilli?
No, they don't.
I know the story about that.
All right.
Well, in that case, all that remains is for me to say, until next time, remember to call your parents from time to time, just to check in and see how they're getting on.
Exactly.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Aye, aye.
Good night.
Good Mennings.
It's been in my head, and now it must be in your head.
Those spacesuits.
It's the foreskin neck.
I can't get it out of my head, Pete.
Oh, what?
The foreskin neck.
The foreskin neck, especially when it's in a red suit.
Now you can never unsee what I have seen.
Look at that.
Oh my lord. foreskin neck.
You see we're children of the 60s and 70s and we didn't get the choice.
No that's right.
Look, I...
We were so mature.
How many ring around the moon jokes did we do?
No, not tiny.